---
layout: default
---

# Changelog for version 0.0.3-alpha.1 (05/25/2014)

- Updated example walkthrough and `spouse_example`
- Added python utility `ddlib` for text manipulation (need exporting PYTHONPATH,
  see its pydoc for usage)
- Added utility script `util/extractor_input_writer.py` to sample extractor inputs
- Updated `nlp_extractor` format (use `sentence_offset`, textual sentence_id)
- Cleaned up unused datastore code
- Update templates
- Bug fixes

# Changelog for version 0.0.3-alpha (05/07/2014)

- **Non-backward-compatible syntax change**: Developers **must** include `id`
  column with type `bigint` in any table containing *variables*, but they **MUST
  NOT use this column** anywhere. This column is reserved for learning and
  inference, and all values will be erased and reassigned during the grounding
  phase.

- **Updated dependency requirement**: requires JDK 7 or higher. 

- Supported four new types of extractors. See documentation for details:
  - [tsv_extractor](../basics/extractors.html#tsv_extractor)
  - [plpy_extractor](../basics/extractors.html#plpy_extractor)
  - [sql_extractor](../basics/extractors.html#sql_extractor)
  - [cmd_extractor](../basics/extractors.html#cmd_extractor)

- Even faster factor graph grounding and serialization using better optimized SQL.

- The previous default Java sampler is no longer supported. The C++ sampler is
  now the default sampler. 

- New configuration tunable supported: `pipeline.relearn_from` to skip
  extraction and grounding and only perform learning and inference with a
  previous version of the grounded graph. Useful for tuning sampler arguments.

<!-- - New configuration supported: `inference.skip_learning` to use weights learned in the last execution. -->

- Supported custom holdout by a [holdout query](../basics/calibration.html#custom_holdout).

- Updated `spouse_example` with implementations of different styles of extractors.

- The `nlp_extractor` example has different table requirements and usage. See here:
  [NLP extractor]({{site.baseurl}}/doc/basics/walkthrough/walkthrough-extras.html#nlp_extractor).

- In the `db.default` configuration, users should define `dbname`, `host`, `port`
  and `user`. If not defined, by default system will use the environmental
  variables `DBNAME`,`PGHOST`, `PGPORT` and `PGUSER` accordingly.

- Fixed all examples.
- Updated documentation.
- Print SQL query execution plans for extractor inputs.
- Skip grounding, learning and inference if no factors are active.
- Greenplum users should add `DISTRIBUTED BY` clause in all `CREATE
  TABLE` commands. Do not use variable id as distribution key. Do not use
  distribution key that is not initially assigned.

