---
layout: default
---

# Changelog for release 0.0.4-alpha (11/19/2014)

This release focuses mostly on new features and bug fixing.

- Added experimental support for MariaDB / MySQL / MySQL Cluster. See
	[Using DeepDive with MySQL](../advanced/mysql.html) for
	details, including limitations of the current support. The code base was
	refactored to make it much easier to add support for additional DBMS in the
	future.
- Ported [Tuffy](http://i.stanford.edu/hazy/tuffy/doc/) to DeepDive. It is now
	possible to run Tuffy programs for Markov Logic Networks on DeepDive. See
	[Markov Logic Networks](../advanced/markov_logic_network.html) for details.
- Added a graphical interface called *Mindtagger* to label data products for
	estimating precision/recall.  See [Labeling Data Products of
	DeepDive](../basics/labeling.html) and files under `examples/labeling/` in
	the source tree.
- Added support for the DEEPDIVE_HOME environmental variable. It's now possible
	to run applications from any location, when this variable is set. See
	[Installation](../basics/installation.html) for details.
- Added support for `-c datacopies` to the DimmWitted sampler (Linux only!).
	This allows to control the number of replications of the data. It is useful
	for performing inference on very large factor graphs while leveraging on
	NUMA. See [The DimmWitted High-Speed Sampler](../basics/sampler.html) for
	details.
- Fixed integer overflow bug (and use of scientific notation) in `tobinary.py`.
	This allows to use DeepDive for inference on very large factor graphs.
- Fix a bug when using multinomial and GreenPlum: the mapping from weight ID and
  weight description is not consistent
- Fixed various bugs (including known JDBC bug) that prevented DeepDive from
	performing inference on very large factor graphs.
