---
layout: default
---

# Changelog for version 0.0.3-alpha.1 (05/25/2014)

- Updated example walkthrough and `spouse_example`
- Added python utility `ddlib` for text manipulation (need exporting PYTHONPATH, usage see its pydoc)
- Added utility script `util/extractor_input_writer.py` to sample extractor inputs
- Updated `nlp_extractor` format (use `sentence_offset`, textual sentence_id)
- Cleaned up unused datastore code
- Update templates
- Bug fixes

# Changelog for version 0.0.3-alpha (05/07/2014)

- **Non-backward-compatible syntax change**: Developers must include `id` column with type `bigint` in any table containing *variables*, but they **MUST NOT use this column** anywhere. This column is preserved for learning and inference, and all values will be erased and reassigned in grounding phase.

- **Non-backward-compatible functionality change**: DeepDive is no longer responsible for any automatic assignment of sequential variable IDs. You may use `examples/spouse_example/scripts/fill_sequence.sh` for this task.

- **Updated dependency requirement**: requires JDK 7 or higher. 

- Supported four new types of extractors. See documentation for details:
  - [tsv_extractor]({{site.baseurl}}/doc/extractors.html#tsv_extractor)
  - [plpy_extractor]({{site.baseurl}}/doc/extractors.html#plpy_extractor)
  - [sql_extractor]({{site.baseurl}}/doc/extractors.html#sql_extractor)
  - [cmd_extractor]({{site.baseurl}}/doc/extractors.html#cmd_extractor)

- Even faster factor graph grounding and serialization using better optimized SQL.

- The previous default Java sampler is no longer supported. Made C++ sampler as the default sampler. 

- New configuration supported: `pipeline.relearn_from` to skip extraction and grounding, only perform learning and inference with a previous version. Useful for tuning sampler arguments.

- New configuration supported: `inference.skip_learning` to use weights learned in the last execution.

- New configuration supported: `inference.weight_table` to fix factor weights in a table and skip learning. The table is specified by factor description and weights. This table can be results from one execution of DeepDive, or manually assigned, or a combination of them. It is useful for learning once and using learned model for later inference tasks.

- Supported manual holdout by a [holdout query]({{site.baseurl}}/doc/calibration.html#custom_holdout).

- Updated `spouse_example` with implementations in different styles of extractors.

- The nlp_extractor example has changed table requirements and usage. See [HERE]({{site.baseurl}}/doc/walkthrough.html#nlp_extractor).

- In `db.default` configuration, users should define `dbname`, `host`, `port` and `user`. If not defined, by default system will use environmental variables `DBNAME`,`PGHOST`, `PGPORT` and `PGUSER` accordingly.

- Fixed all examples.
- Updated documentation.
- Print SQL query execution plans for extractor inputs.
- Skip grounding, learning and inference if no factors are active.
- If using GreenPlum, users should add `DISTRIBUTED BY` clause in all `CREATE TABLE` commands. Do not use variable id as distribution key. Do not use distribution key that is not initially assigned.
