---
layout: default
title: Changes for 0.7.0
no_toc: true
---

# Changelog for Release 0.7.0-alpha (07/14/2015)

* Provides a new command-line interface `deepdive` with a new [standard DeepDive application layout][applayout].
    - No more installation/configuration complication: Users run everything through the only `deepdive` command, and everything *just works* in any environment.  The only possible failure mode is not being able to run `deepdive` command, e.g., by not setting up the `PATH` environment correctly.
    - No more pathname/environment clutter in apps: repeated settings for `DEEPDIVE_HOME`, `APP_HOME`, `PYTHONPATH`, `LD_LIBRARY_PATH`, `PGHOST`, `PGPORT`, ... in `run.sh` or `env.sh` or `env_local.sh` or `env_db.sh` or etc. are gone.  Path names (e.g., extractor udf) in `application.conf` are all relative to the application root, and brittle relative paths are no longer used in any of the examples.
    - Clear separation of app code from infrastructure code, as well as source code from object code: No more confusing of deepdive source tree with binary/executable/shared-library distribution or temporary/log/output directories.
    - Binary releases can be built with `make package`.

* Here are a summary of changes visible to users:
    - Application settings is now kept in `deepdive.conf` file instead of `application.conf`.
    - Database settings is now done by putting everything (host, port, user, password, database name) into a single URL in file `db.url`.
    - Path names (e.g., extractor udf) in deepdive.conf are all relative to the application root unless they are absolute paths.
    - SQL queries against the database can be run easily with `deepdive sql` command when run under an application.
    - Database schema is now put in file `schema.sql` and optional initial data loading can be done by a script `input/init.sh`.  Input data is recommended to be kept under `input/`.
    - By passing the pipeline name as an extra argument to the `deepdive run` command, different pipelines can be run very easily: No more application.conf editing.
    - Logs and outputs are placed under application root, under `snapshot/`.

* Adds piggy extractor that replaces the now deprecated plpy extractor.

* Includes the latest DDlog compiler with extended syntax support for writing more real world applications.

* Includes the latest Mindbender with Dashboard GUI for producing summary reports after each DeepDive run and interactively analyzing data products.


### Workaround for Old Style Applications

To have an old style DeepDive applications run with this version, here's a small change you can try.
You can replace your `sbt` or `deepdive` line in your `run.sh` script with the following `deepdive env java` command:

```bash
deepdive env java org.deepdive.Main -c application.conf -o output_dir
```

However, it is strongly recommended to upgrade to the new [standard layout][applayout] because more features and tools will rely on the app structure, and backward incompatible changes that break the following workaround can be introduced at any release in the future.



[applayout]: ../deepdiveapp
